LAWN TENNIS FOR LADIES by MRS. LAMBERT CHAMBERS
First published in 1910, London

I am writing with no academic pride, but only with a passionate fondness for what I consider a great
sport, and with a keen desire to make others equally devoted.

--------------------

ATHLETICS FOR GIRLS

I hope and believe there are comparatively few people who will deny that
athletics have done much for the health and mind of the modern girl.
Exercise in some form or other is essential, and although I am quite
ready to admit that games of the strenuous type, such as hockey and lawn
tennis, can be and sometimes are overdone, yet the girl of to-day, who
enters into and enjoys her game, is, I am convinced, better in health and happier in herself
than the girl of the past generation.

--------------------

PRACTICE, AND HOW TO IMPROVE

Players, even tournament players, often ask how they can improve. "I
have been at the same stage so long; what can I do to play a better
game?" That is not infrequently the question. Now I think many who are
very anxious to advance go to work in the wrong way. To my mind, the
great point to remember when you are practising is not that the match
must be won, but that all your weak strokes must be improved. We all
know our special failures; if not, some kind friend will soon point them
out to us. Tackle these doggedly in practice.

--------------------

MATCH AND TOURNAMENT PLAY

When you have acquired a certain knowledge of the game and can play the
various strokes in the correct way, then, as I have said, tournament and
match play is the very best method of improvement. I would emphasize the
need for a certain standard of efficiency, because I am convinced that
at the present time there are too many weak players competing at open
meetings. The style of these players has only to be watched to be
condemned, and their knowledge of the game is hopelessly limited.

--------------------

RACKETS, COURTS, DRESS, AND TRAINING

I advise a plain gored skirt--not pleated; I think these are most
unsuitable on court--about four or five inches from the ground. It
should just clear your ankles and have plenty of fullness round the hem.
White is undoubtedly the best colour to wear. It washes well and does
not fade, and looks very much neater on the court than a coloured
material. I prefer white shoes and stockings, for I think it looks nicer
to be in one uniform colour. But this is a matter of taste. Some people
urge that white shoes make your feet appear much bigger than black or
brown. I do not agree. 

--------------------